The USA Computing Olympiad is a nation-wide programming competition. It focuses on the development of high-level algorithms to solve a given, arbitrary task.
They offer training, national contests, and a spot in International Olympiad. Visit http://www.usaco.org/.

Know that different people will take different spans of time to move through this material, especially the 100+ programming challenges. Some students already have years of experience. Others are just beginning to compete. 
Still, regardless of your experience, doing less than one problem per two weeks is not high enough to increase your skill. You should be doing more problems as you get more experienced.

The USACO holds periodic web-based contests during the academic year, and in the late Spring conducts the US Open, the "national championship" exam. 
Contests generally run for three to five continuous hours in length, although for maximum flexibility, you are free to schedule this block of time anywhere within a Friday-to-Monday contest weekend. Y
our timer starts when you log into the contest and download the problems. Contest tasks are presented on the web, and you submit your final solutions through a simple web interface. Participation is free and open to all. Contests are offered in four divisions:

Bronze, for students who have recently learned to program, but who have no training in algorithms beyond basic concepts like sorting and binary search.
Silver, for students who are beginning to learn fundamental problem-solving techniques (e.g., recursive search, greedy algorithms) and fundamental data structures.
Gold, where students encounter more standard algorithms of a more complex nature (e.g., shortest paths, dynamic programming) and more advanced data structures.
Platinum, for advanced students who are well grounded in algorithmic problem-solving techniques, who wish to challenge themselves with sophisticated and more open-ended problems.

All participants start in the bronze division, and those who score particularly well in a contest will be promoted to the next division. 
Contestants scoring particularly highly will be automatically promoted to the next division while a contest is running; others will need to wait until results are announced at the end of the contest to see if they meet the (contest-dependent) cutoff for promotion.
